So we want to make these action buttons here work,
we want to be able to deal damage and to heal ourselves.
That will involve a bit more code since this really is our core logic of this game
but let's start simple by hooking up these buttons to events or to event listeners. In my html
code,
here are the buttons
and of course I want to add listeners with the add or v-on syntax, whatever you prefer.
So I want to listen to a click event here and here, I want to execute the attack method, for special
attack, I
also want to listen to click and execute special attack,
I will have to create all these methods here of course. For heal, I want to execute heal
unsurprisingly
and you guessed it, what I want to execute here for
give up, give up even though we never give up, do we?
So this is the click listener part,
next I want to create these functions in my app.js file.
So here I in the methods object, I add the attack function like this,
then I add the special attack function, like this,
I also want to add the heal function here
and let's add the give up function,
these are the four functions we can execute through these buttons
Now let's think about which logic belongs into these functions, in attack
we want to deal damage to the monster, the monster
also in each of these cases except for give up also deals damage to us.
So we want to deal damage to the monster in attack, get damage and then kind of yes,
end the turn or simply be finished with that. In special attack it's the same but we want to do more damage
and in heal,
we want to heal ourselves instead of deal damage and in give up, we want to reset and restart the game or
start a new game.
How do we do that?
Let's start at the top with attack here,
the first thing is that we need to calculate the damage we deal,
so I create a new variable called damage here and damage shall be a random number.
Now we also want to control the highest and lowest possible damage,
so how could we do this? We could create or we can generate a random number with math.random but
this will be between 0 and 1, 1 excluded,
so this is not what we want,
we want to have a maximum damage. So let's create Max here and let's set it to 10 for example,
we also will set up a minimum damage, damage min which is 3.
Now since math.random is between 0 and 1, we shall multiply it with max to now be between 0 and well 10,
but 10 excluded,
so 9..999,
it's a floating point number.
So this is still not what we want, we want to have an integer, 10 included not excluded. To get there,
I will wrap this in parentheses and I will get the floor of that
with the math.floor function where I pass this random number between 0 and 9,99999.
Now we have a random number, an integer number between 0 and 9,
well if I add 1 here, we get 1 between 1 and 10 so
we're almost there
but I said I want to have a minimum damage of 3 and not 1.
So in order to do this, I will use the math.max function to get the maximum number and that either is
my random number here or the minimum.
So if my random number is 1 or 2, then we'll take the minimum 3
otherwise we'll take the random number,
so with that we get a random number between 3 and 10.
That's some general arithmetic,
nice to know anyway I guess.
So this is the random damage
I want a deal here
and also I will use a similar calculation for the monster damage.
So here for this random damage, I then want to take the monster health and reduce it by this damage we
dealt,
now of course the monster also shall damage to us here and therefore, we basically need to run the same
logic for the monster.
Now let's say the monster should have a little edge on us and should deal more damage,
so for that we might set max back to or change it to 12
and min to 5 and then here, I'll recalculate the damage based on that
and then I can say this player health is reduced by damage.
Now clearly we're repeating ourselves here,
we have a lot of duplicate code so we should refactor this and outsource it in different functions
but before doing so, let's see if this generally works.
If I save this and I reload my application and start a new game, now let's click attack. It should change
so let's see in here in the index.html,
well yeah that should be attacked not attach, let's see the other
other command, should be right, so with that, reloading should now correctly reduce the health.
Now let's reduce the health, it seems like we're losing which is not too surprising with because we would
require a lot of luck since the monster has a higher minimum and maximum damage.
So let's continue and lose our battle and we're dead and nothing happens,
we're getting a negative health here now.
So the app is not working how it
should, we also need to check if we're winning or not.
So the next tasks are refactoring this code and checking if we're losing or not, let's implement
this check first so that we can correctly recognize if we're dead or not.
How do we check for that? Well after we dealt damage to the monster, we want to check if we won
and after the monster dealt damage to us, we want to check if the monster won.
So let's start here,
if the monster health here is smaller or equal to zero, then we won.
So here we wanna output alert for now,
you won, like this.
We also want
let's say want to set game is running to false again. I'll change this later on but for now, this is all
I want,
also I don't want to execute the code down there,
the monster shouldn't deal damage to us because we won, the game is over.
So I'll return here to finish this function,
exit out of it.
The same is true after the monster dealt damage to us, here we want to check if the player health is smaller
or equal to zero
in which case we would have lost and now the game is also over and we don't need a return here,
there is no code after that.
So with that, if my reload this, start a new game and we lose again,
you see now we got you lost and correctly, the game is reset and we can start a new one here. So that
already works.
Now we get even more to refactor now because we are also kind of repeating this code here and we will
have to copy this checking here if we lost or won into each of the following functions here where we
have a special attack and heal.
So it's definitely time to refactor our code and create some new functions for checking the win condition
and calculating the damage.